## 2.1 Index Laws

$a^m\cdot a^n = a^{m+n}$

$a^m\div a^n=a^{m-n}$

$(a^m)^n=a^{mn}$

$\sqrt[n]{a^m}=a^\frac{m}{n}$

## 2.2 Surds

$(\sqrt x)^2=x$

$\sqrt{xy}=\sqrt x\sqrt y$

$(\sqrt x+\sqrt y)(\sqrt x-\sqrt y)=x-y$

## 2.3 Quadratic Functions

### The Discriminant

**Discriminant**: for a quadratic function, the discriminant is $b^2-4ac$.

| Condition | Number of solution |
|-|-|
| $b^2-4ac>0$ | 2 |
| $b^2-4ac=0$ | 1 |
| $b^2-4ac<0$ | 0 |

### Completing the Square

$$
ax^2+bx+c = a(x+\frac{b}{2a})^2+(c-\frac{b^2}{4a})
$$

## 2.4 Simultaneous Equations

### Elimination

1. Multiply the equations so that one of the variables has the same coefficient in both equations.
e.g. Given $y-2x=2$ and $2y+x=\frac{13}2$, double the first equation to get $2y-4x=4$.
1. Add or subtract the equations from each other to eliminate one of the variables.
e.g. Subtract $2y-4x=3$ from $2y+x=\frac{13}2$ to get $5x=\frac52$, so $x=\frac12$.
1. Solve the equation and substitute the result into the original equation to get solutions for all variables.

### Substitution

1. Rearrange the equation to get a variable on one side of the equation.
e.g. $y = 2x +3$.
1. Replace the variable in the other equation(s) with the value of the variable.
e.g. $x + \frac12y=0$, becomes $x + \frac12(2x+3)=0$.
1. Solve the equation and substitute the result into the original equation to get solutions for all variables.

## 2.5 Inequalities

When you have inequalities in the form $\frac ax<b$, you must multiply both sides by $x^2$ as if $x<0$, the sign would need to flip.

### Graphically

* Solid lines include themselves (i.e. they are for $\ge$, $\le$).
* Dotted lines don’t include themselves (i.e. they are for $>$, $<$).

### Representing Inequalities through Set Notation

$$
x<a \space \text{or} \space x>b=\{x:x<a\}\cup\{x:x>b\}
$$

$$
c<x \space \text{and} \space x<d=\{x:c<x\}\cap\{x:x<d\}
$$

## 2.6 Polynomials

A polynomial is a function of the form

$f(x)=a+bx+cx^2+dx^3+\cdots$

Where $a$, $b$, $c$, $d$… are constants.

* The power can only be a positive integer.
* The **order** of a polynomial is its highest power.

| Order | Name |
|-|-|
| 0 | Constant |
| 1 | Linear |
| 2 | Quadratic |
| 3 | Cubic |
| 4 | Quartic |
| 5 | Quintic |
* Functions with multiple variables can be polynomials.
* The order of the function is different for each variable.

## 2.7 Graphing Functions and Modulus

### Graphing Polynomials

* $y=(x-a)(x-b)^2(x-c)^3$
At
    * $x=a$, the line crosses the axis.
    * $x=b$, the line touches the axis.
    * $x=c$, there is a point of inflection on the axis.
* If the discriminant of a the remaining quadratic from a cubic function has no real roots, the N shape can be on either side of the axis. (might remove this)
* If $y=f(x)$ and $y=g(x)$, the $x$ component of the point of intersection can be found using the equation $f(x)=g(x)$.
* Rules for graphs
    * Apply the inside of the brackets first, then the outside.
    * Stretch first, then translate.

> $f(ax+b)=f(a[x+\frac ba])$ when sketching graphs.

### Modulus

The modulus of a number is it’s magnitude (i.e. the non-negative part of the number).

$$
|x|=
\begin{cases}
x & \text{if } x\ge0\\
-x & \text{if }x <0
\end{cases}
$$

* $|a+b|=|a|+|b|$ if $a, b\ge0$ or $a, b<0$
* $|a\cdot b|=|a|\cdot|b|$

## 2.8 Composite and Inverse Functions

### Mappings

* A **mapping** transforms one set of numbers into another (i.e. inputs to outputs).
* The **domain** is the set of all possible inputs to a mapping.
* The **range** is the set of all possible outputs to a mapping.

#### Types of Mapping

* Many to one
* One to one
* One to many

e.g. $x^2$ as $2\rightarrow4, -2\rightarrow4$.

e.g. $2x+1$

e.g. $\pm\sqrt x$ as $4\rightarrow2, -2$.

* A **function** is a mapping such that every element of the domain is mapped to exactly one element of the range.

### Inverse Functions

* The notation for the inverse of a function $f(x)$ is $f^{-1}(x)$.
* The inverse of a function $f(x)$ is defined such that

    $f^{-1}\circ f(x)=f\circ f^{-1}(x)=x$

* Inverse functions are reflected along the line $y=x$.

## 2.9 Graph Transformations

## 2.10 Decompose Rational Functions into Partial Fractions

## 2.11 Using Functions for Modelling